README.md, before:

# Timeloop user guide

## Getting started

* Install the following dependencies.
```
scons
libconfig++-dev
libboost-dev
libboost-iostreams-dev
libboost-serialization-dev
libyaml-cpp-dev
libncurses-dev
libtinfo-dev
libgpm-dev
```

* Clone the timeloop repository.
```
mkdir timeloop-dev
cd timeloop-dev
git clone ssh://path/to/timeloop.git
```

* In addition to the main source code, you need the source code for a
  power-area-timing (pat) model to build timeloop. A placeholder pat model
  is included in the main repository. Before building timeloop, place a
  symbolic link to the pat model like so:
```
cd timeloop/src
ln -s ../pat-public/src/pat .
cd ..
```

* Instead of the included placeholder pat model, you may build against any
  other custom pat model, as long as it exports the same interface as the
  pat/pat.hpp in the included model. The implementation must be in a
  pat/pat.cpp file. As before, create a symbolic link to the source code for
  the power-area-timing model and place it in `src/pat`, for example:
```
git clone ssh://path/to/timeloop-pat[XXX].git
cd timeloop/src
ln -s ../../timeloop-pat[XXX]/src/pat .
cd ..
```

* Another way to provide a power/energy model to Timeloop is to integrate
[Accelergy](http://accelergy.mit.edu) with Timeloop. To do so, you need to
provide the path to Accelelergy binary as an environmental variable,
`ACCELERGYPATH`, before building Timeloop. For example, if Accelergy is
installed at `/home/${USER}/.local/bin/` (the default path when using pip3), in
`bash`, you will use:
```
export ACCELERGYPATH=/home/${USER}/.local/bin/
```

* Once the pat link is set up, you can build timeloop using scons.
```
scons -j4
```
This builds 3 different tools:
* `timeloop-mapper` is the complete application that instantiates an architecture,
  constructs its mapspace, searches for an optimal mapping within the mapspace
  and reports statistics for the optimal mapping.
* `timeloop-model` instantiates an architecture, evalutes a specific given
  mapping of a workload and reports the statistics.
* `timeloop-metrics` simply instantiates an architecture and reports its
  workload-independent characteristics such as area and energy-per-access
  for various architectural structures.

* Run timeloop with a sample configuration.
```
cd configs/timeloop
../../build/timeloop-mapper ./sample.yaml > sample.out
```

This will place timeloop's log in `sample.out` and generate the following outputs:
* `timeloop-mapper.stats.txt` Simulation stats (performance, energy, etc.)
* `timeloop-mapper.map.txt/cfg` The optimal mapping in different formats
  (the latter can be used in conjunction with the
  input architecture and problem spec to re-run the model on the optimal
  mapping.)
* `timeloop-mapper.map+stats.xml` An XML-formatted copy of the stats and optimal mapping
  which is used by various Python scripts to extract results from batch runs.

## Further reading
[ISPASS 2019 paper](http://parashar.org/ispass19.pdf)

Commit message:

[scons] Add --accelergy flag to build Timeloop with Accelergy
With this flag, during compilation, scons will search $PATH to find
where Accelergy is installed and pass it to Timeloop. And if scons
cannot find Accelergy, the build will fail.

The ACCELERGYPATH variable now becomes an option to provide only if
Accelergy is not installed as instructed (i.e., `which accelergy` cannot
find it).

README.md, after:

# Timeloop user guide

## Getting started

* Install the following dependencies.
```
scons
libconfig++-dev
libboost-dev
libboost-iostreams-dev
libboost-serialization-dev
libyaml-cpp-dev
libncurses-dev
libtinfo-dev
libgpm-dev
```

* Clone the timeloop repository.
```
mkdir timeloop-dev
cd timeloop-dev
git clone ssh://path/to/timeloop.git
```

* In addition to the main source code, you need the source code for a
  power-area-timing (pat) model to build timeloop. A placeholder pat model
  is included in the main repository. Before building timeloop, place a
  symbolic link to the pat model like so:
```
cd timeloop/src
ln -s ../pat-public/src/pat .
cd ..
```

* Instead of the included placeholder pat model, you may build against any
  other custom pat model, as long as it exports the same interface as the
  pat/pat.hpp in the included model. The implementation must be in a
  pat/pat.cpp file. As before, create a symbolic link to the source code for
  the power-area-timing model and place it in `src/pat`, for example:
```
git clone ssh://path/to/timeloop-pat[XXX].git
cd timeloop/src
ln -s ../../timeloop-pat[XXX]/src/pat .
cd ..
```

* Another way to provide a power/energy model to Timeloop is to integrate
[Accelergy](http://accelergy.mit.edu) with Timeloop. To do so, you need to
either install Accelergy so that the shell can find it (i.e., `which accelergy`
works), or provide the path to Accelergy binary as an environmental variable,
`ACCELERGYPATH`, before building Timeloop.

Then, when building timeloop in the next step, you need to provide the extra
`--accelergy` flag to `scons` so that it build Timeloop with Accelergy.

```
scons --accelergy
```

* Once the pat link is set up, you can build timeloop using scons.
```
scons -j4
```
This builds 3 different tools:
* `timeloop-mapper` is the complete application that instantiates an architecture,
  constructs its mapspace, searches for an optimal mapping within the mapspace
  and reports statistics for the optimal mapping.
* `timeloop-model` instantiates an architecture, evalutes a specific given
  mapping of a workload and reports the statistics.
* `timeloop-metrics` simply instantiates an architecture and reports its
  workload-independent characteristics such as area and energy-per-access
  for various architectural structures.

* Run timeloop with a sample configuration.
```
cd configs/timeloop
../../build/timeloop-mapper ./sample.yaml > sample.out
```

This will place timeloop's log in `sample.out` and generate the following outputs:
* `timeloop-mapper.stats.txt` Simulation stats (performance, energy, etc.)
* `timeloop-mapper.map.txt/cfg` The optimal mapping in different formats
  (the latter can be used in conjunction with the
  input architecture and problem spec to re-run the model on the optimal
  mapping.)
* `timeloop-mapper.map+stats.xml` An XML-formatted copy of the stats and optimal mapping
  which is used by various Python scripts to extract results from batch runs.

## Further reading
[ISPASS 2019 paper](http://parashar.org/ispass19.pdf)
